Code for the Master's thesis: Lightweight Blockchain-based Federated Learning Framework for Crowdsourced IoT

Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, and Data Analytics have been inseparable components of this postmodern era’s life. Major fields of business and operation try to maximize the utility of data streams from IoT sensors using popular data analytics techniques, in particular deep learning (DL). Plain DL requires all data to go to a central processing site for training. In business contexts, corporates often restrain from sharing raw data to external parties for privacy reasons. Federated Learning (FL) plays a role to isolate dataset within private parties while still allowing a third party to gain information from aggregating black-box models from data sources. Blockchain, a distributed ledger, provides decentralization, immutability, and transparency properties to avoid single point of failure, potential data or model poisoning from malicious parties, and imbalanced incentivization. Blockchain-based FL (BFL) is popularly used in crowdsourced IoT analysis purposes. However, IoT devices are resource constrained in terms of storage and computation power, especially that both blockchain and FL are known to be resource-consuming. Therefore, this research examines and tries to derive a lightweight BFL which accommodates IoT applications. This research improves and integrates existing approaches such as blockchain compression, off-chain storage, quality-based consensus, reputation system which can guide incentivization, and off-chain D2D communication and transaction. The major contribution of this work is a BFL architecture with significantly improved model validation scores under up to 63% poisoning attack compared to ML and FL. Furthermore, the proposed BFL scheme reduces much data transmission compared to ML but not FL and embraces a transparent, quality-first aggregation. Possible applications of this research include a crowdsourced IoT training in mobile scenarios and an IoT marketplace.
